You've learned how to implement
exponentially weighted averages.
There's one technical detail
called biased correction
that can make you computation of
these averages more accurately.
Let's see how that works.
In a previous video,
you saw this figure for beta = 0.9.
This figure for beta = 0.98.
But it turns out that if you implement
the formula as written here,
you won't actually get the green
curve when, say, beta = 0.98.
You actually get the purple curve here.
And you notice that the purple
curve starts off really low.
So let's see how it affects that.
When you're implementing a moving average,
you initialize it with v0 = 0,
and then v1 = 0.98 V0 + 0.02 theta 1.
But V0 is equal to 0 so
that term just goes away.
So V1 is just 0.02 times theta 1.
So that's why if the first day's
temperature is, say 40 degrees Fahrenheit,
then v1 will be 0.02 times 40, which is 8.
So you get a much lower value down here.
So it's not a very good estimate
of the first day's temperature.
v2 will be 0.98 times v1
+ 0.02 times theta 2.
And if you plug in v1, which is
this down here and multiply it out,
then you find that v2 is
actually equal to 0.98 times
0.02 times theta 1 + 0.02 times theta 2.
And that 0.0 196 theta1 + 0.02 theta2.
So again, assuming theta1 and
theta2 are positive numbers,
when you compute this v2 will be
much less than theta1 or theta2.
So v2 isn't a very good estimate of the
first two days' temperature of the year.
So it turns out that there is a way to
modify this estimate that makes it much
better, that makes it more accurate,
especially during this initial
phase of your estimate.
Which is that, instead of taking Vt,
take Vt divided by 1-
Beta to the power of t where t
is the current data here on.
So let's take a concrete example.
When t = 2, 1- beta to the power
of t is 1- 0.98 squared and
it urns out that this is 0.0396.
And so
your estimate of the tempature on day 2
becomes v2 divided by 0.0396 and
this is going to be 0.0196
times theta 1 + 0.02 theta 2.
You notice that these two things adds
up to the denominator 0.03 and 6.
And so this becomes a weighted
average of theta 1 and theta 2 and
this removes this bias.
So you notice that as t becomes large,
beta to the t will
approach 0 which is why
when t is large enough,
the bias correction makes
almost no difference.
This is why when t is large,
the purple line and
the green line pretty much overlap.
But during this initial phase of learning
when you're still warming up your
estimates when the bias correction can
help you to obtain a better estimate of
this temperature.
And it is this bias correction that
helps you go from the purple line
to the green line.
So in machine learning, for
most implementations of the exponential
weighted average, people don't often
bother to implement bias corrections.
Because most people would rather
just wait that initial period and
have a slightly more biased estimate and
go from there.
But if you are concerned about
the bias during this initial phase,
while your exponentially weighted
moving average is still warming up.
Then bias correction can help you
get a better estimate early on.
So you now know how to implement
exponentially weighted moving averages.
Let's go on and use this to build
some better optimization algorithms.